[K8S] Documentation audit logs (#2640)
scaleway/docs-content: containers/kubernetes/how-to/access-audit-logs.mdx

---
meta:
  title: How to access the Kubernetes audit logs
  description: This page explains how to access the audit logs of your Kubernetes cluster
content:
  h1: How to access the Kubernetes audit logs
  paragraph: This page explains how to access the dashboard of your Kubernetes cluster
tags: kubernetes kubernetes-kapsule kapsule kosmos cluster audit logs
dates:
  validation: 2024-01-23
  posted: 2024-01-23
categories:
  - kubernetes
---

Kubernetes Kapsule and Kosmos control plane metrics and logs are integrated into Cockpit, providing you with a centralized hub for monitoring the control plane, nodes, managed resources, and cluster system applications.

> While this initial integration empowers you with the autonomy to troubleshoot issues promptly, we have taken the next stride by extending the functionality—now, Kubernetes audit records are also exported into Cockpit.

Reviewer: "functionality-now" = typo?

> While this initial integration empowers you with the autonomy to troubleshoot issues promptly, we have taken the next stride by extending the functionality—now, Kubernetes audit records are also exported into Cockpit.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While this initial integration empowers you with the autonomy to troubleshoot issues promptly, we have taken the next step by extending the functionality—now, Kubernetes audit records are also exported into Cockpit.
```

> Kubernetes audit logs provide you detailed access to the activities generated by users, by applications that use the Kubernetes API, and by the control plane itself.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kubernetes audit logs give you detailed access to the activities generated by users, by applications that use the Kubernetes API, and by the control plane itself.
```

Auditing allows cluster administrators to answer the following questions:

* what happened?
* when did it happen?
* who initiated it?
* on what did it happen?
* where was it observed?
* from where was it initiated?

> * to where was it going?

Reviewer 2: I'd probably capitalize all of the questions

> Audit logging in Kubernetes clusters now by default on for clusters with dedicated control planes. Use audit logging to keep a chronological record of calls made to the Kubernetes API server, investigate suspicious API requests, collect statistics, or create monitoring alerts for unwanted API calls. 

Reviewer 2: I think the first sentence is missing a verb somewhere.

All logs are centralized in [Cockpit](/observability/cockpit/quickstart/) for free.

<Message type="tip">
    Monitoring calls to the `kube-apiserver` is a matter of security compliance and perhaps a hard requirement for some of the certifications you are keen to obtain.
</Message>

## How to enable audit logging

> You can enable audit logging for all your clusters that use a dedicated control plane. If you have created your cluster before the introdution of the feature, you have to enable it for the cluster from your Scaleway console.

Author: ```suggestion
You can enable audit logging for all your clusters that use a dedicated control plane. If you have created your cluster before the introduction of the feature, you have to enable it for the cluster from your Scaleway console.
```

<Message type="tip">
    Audit logs are activated by default for all new clusters using dedicated control planes.
</Message>

> 1. [Activate Cockpit](/observability/cockpit/how-to/activate-cockpit/) for the project your Kubernetes cluster is located in.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. [Activate Cockpit](/observability/cockpit/how-to/activate-cockpit/) for the Project your Kubernetes cluster is located in.
```

2. Enable **Audit logs** in the **Security and Compliance** section of your Kubernetes cluster **Settings** tab.
2. [Access Grafana](/observability/cockpit/how-to/access-grafana-and-managed-dashboards/) to view the logs in the **Kubernetes Cluster Audit Logs** dashboard within Cockpit, as well as in the **Explore** section of Cockpit/Grafana.

> 3. Finally, examine the [Kubernetes Audit Policy](https://gist.github.com/Tomy2e/938e85ab78325e6a42155d54e1df8d1b) file, which contains a list of rules, giving you complete visibility into our API server configuration and the chosen request treatments or exclusions.

Reviewer: Absolutely. Do you know where to ask for this to happen?

> 3. Finally, examine the [Kubernetes Audit Policy](https://gist.github.com/Tomy2e/938e85ab78325e6a42155d54e1df8d1b) file, which contains a list of rules, giving you complete visibility into our API server configuration and the chosen request treatments or exclusions.

Author: Seen with Tomy, the file is now hosted on the official repo : https://github.com/scaleway/kubernetes-gists/blob/main/audit/policy.yaml

<Message type="tip">

>     In case of doubt if audit logs for your cluster are enabled, you can verify the status of the feature from the clusters **Security** tab at any time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    If you are not sure whether audit logs for your cluster are enabled, you can verify the status of the feature from the clusters **Security** tab at any time.
```

</Message>

> ## How to disable audit logging

Author: Added both warning + section - wdyt?

> In case you do not want the audit logs of your cluster being stored, you can disable the feature.

Reviewer: The rationale behind disabling audit log could be to save memory on not sensitive clusters.
The official k8s doc states: 
_The audit logging feature increases the memory consumption of the API server because some context required for auditing is stored for each request._
https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/debug/debug-cluster/audit/

> In case you do not want the audit logs of your cluster being stored, you can disable the feature.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you do not want the audit logs of your cluster being stored, you can disable the feature.
```

After following these steps, no further audit logs will be stored in Cockpit.

## How to use audit logging with mutualized control planes

At present, audit logging is only available for clusters using a [dedicated control plane](https://www.scaleway.com/en/kubernetes-dedicated-control-plane/). Note that downgrading your cluster from a dedicated to a mutualized control plane will **automatically disable audit logging**, ceasing the storage of any further audit logs in Cockpit.

<Message type="important">
  Be aware that audit logging is a feature specifically designed for clusters using a dedicated control plane. If you decide to downgrade to a mutualized control plane, the feature will be automatically deactivated for the cluster.
</Message>

## Kubernetes audit policy

The Kubernetes audit policy defines the selection of log entries exported by the Kubernetes API server.
You can examine the [Kubernetes audit policy](https://github.com/scaleway/kubernetes-gists/blob/main/audit/policy.yaml) file, which contains a list of rules, giving you complete visibility into our API server configuration and the chosen request treatments or exclusions.

> <Navigation title="See Also">

Author: ```suggestion
<Navigation title="See also">
```

  The audit log feature is automatically disabled when downgrading your cluster from a dedicated to a mutualized control plane. This means no further audit logs will be stored in Cockpit once downgraded.
</Message>

## How to access cluster audit logs for clusters having a dedicated control plance.

You can access your clusters audit logs in [Cockpit](/observability/cockpit/), Scaleway's monitoring solution. It allows you to visualize your metrics, logs, and traces in your Grafana dashboard.

<Message type="tip">
    Audit logs are automatically enabled by default for all clusters using dedicated control planes.
</Message>

1. [Activate Cockpit](/observability/cockpit/how-to/activate-cockpit/) for the Project where your Kubernetes cluster is located.
3. [Access Grafana](/observability/cockpit/how-to/access-grafana-and-managed-dashboards/) to view the logs on the **Kubernetes Cluster Audit Logs** dashboard in Cockpit and the **Explore** section of Cockpit/Grafana.

## How to use audit logging with mutualized control planes

At present, audit logging is only available for clusters using a [dedicated control plane](https://www.scaleway.com/en/kubernetes-dedicated-control-plane/). 

> Note that downgrading your cluster from a dedicated to a mutualized control plane will **automatically disable audit logging**, ceasing the storage of any further audit logs in Cockpit.

Author: ```suggestion
Note that downgrading your cluster from a dedicated to a mutualized control plane will **automatically disable audit logging**, ceasing the storage of any further audit logs in Cockpit.

<Message type="note">
  Audit logging results in increased memory consumption for the API server, as it needs to store additional information for each audited request.
</Message>
```
